

Bibliographic Entries
=====================

*Note: This file is autogenerated. Don't edit it directly*

### Cryo-EM Structure of the Open Human  Ether-à-go-go -Related K +  Channel hERG
`2017-herg-structure`

Weiwei Wang; Roderick MacKinnon

- 2017-04-01 (print)

*Cell (Cell)*. 169, 3, 422-430.e10.


### Structures of closed and open states of a voltage-gated sodium channel
`2017-navab`

Michael J. Lenaeus; Tamer M. Gamal El-Din; Christopher Ing; Karthik Ramanadane;
Régis Pomès; Ning Zheng; William A. Catterall

- 2017-03-27 (online)
- 2017-04-11 (print)

*Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.)*. 114, 15, E3051-E3060.

**Description:**
Open PD/VSD (5vb8) and closed PD/VSD/CTD (5vb2)



### The complete structure of an activated open sodium channel
`2017-open-full-navms`

Altin Sula; Jennifer Booker; Leo C. T. Ng; Claire E. Naylor; Paul G. DeCaen; B.
A. Wallace

- 2017-02-16 (online)

*Nature Communications (Nat. Commun.)*. 8, 14205.

**Description:**
First full-length, open conformation. [2017-navab] has a full-length
closed. This is NavMs and that is NavAb.



### Structure of a eukaryotic voltage-gated sodium channel at near-atomic resolution
`2017-euk-navpas`

Huaizong Shen; Qiang Zhou; Xiaojing Pan; Zhangqiang Li; Jianping Wu; Nieng Yan

- 2017-02-09 (online)
- 2017-03-03 (print)

*Science (Science)*. 355, 6328, eaal4326.

**Description:**
First eukaryotic structure. CryoEM of cockroach NaV. Might not be a NaV. No
elecrophysiology can be performed. Was originally called PaFPC1, they
renamed it NaVPaS



### Simulating the Activation of Voltage Sensing Domain for a Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel Using Polarizable Force Field
`2017-vsd-only-pmf`

Rui-Ning Sun; Haipeng Gong

- 2017-02-09 (online)
- 2017-03-02 (print)

*The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters (J. Phys. Chem. Lett.)*. 8, 5, 901-908.

**Description:**
They simulated only one domain. They took the NavAb vsd and connected it
via molecular dynamics to a homology model to a [sea
squirt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ciona_intestinalis) vsd. They used a
polarizable force-field, which is more expensive than normal (fixed charge)
forcefields but that might be important for something so intertwined with
moving electrical charges!



### Structure of the voltage-gated calcium channel Cav1.1 at 3.6 Å resolution
`2016-cav-structure`

Jianping Wu; Zhen Yan; Zhangqiang Li; Xingyang Qian; Shan Lu; Mengqiu Dong;
Qiang Zhou; Nieng Yan

- 2016-08-31 (online)

*Nature (Nature)*. 537, 7619, 191-196.

**Description:**
Cav structure. What's the diference between [2015-cav-structure]

### The Receptor Site and Mechanism of Action of Sodium Channel Blocker Insecticides
`2016-btx-insect`

Yongqiang Zhang; Yuzhe Du; Dingxin Jiang; Caitlyn Behnke; Yoshiko Nomura; Boris
S. Zhorov; Ke Dong

- 2016-08-03 (online)
- 2016-09-16 (print)

*Journal of Biological Chemistry (J. Biol. Chem.)*. 291, 38, 20113-20124.

**Description:**
Homology model to open cockroach channel and docking study



### Convergent Substitutions in a Sodium Channel Suggest Multiple Origins of Toxin Resistance in Poison Frogs
`2016-btx-frogs`

Rebecca D. Tarvin; Juan C. Santos; Lauren A. O'Connell; Harold H. Zakon; David
C. Cannatella

- 2016-01-18 (online)
- 2016-04-01 (print)

*Molecular Biology and Evolution (Mol. Biol. Evol.)*. 33, 4, 1068-1081.

**Description:**
Evolutionary analysis and docking study on NaV 1.4 in frogs immune to
toxins



### Structure of the voltage-gated calcium channel Cav1.1 complex
`2015-cav-structure`

J. Wu; Z. Yan; Z. Li; C. Yan; S. Lu; M. Dong; N. Yan

- 2015-12-17 (online)
- 2015-12-18 (print)

*Science (Science)*. 350, 6267, aad2395-aad2395.

**Description:**
also a cav structure.

### Structure of a Prokaryotic Sodium Channel Pore Reveals Essential Gating Elements and an Outer Ion Binding Site Common to Eukaryotic Channels
`2014-closed-navae1p`

David Shaya; Felix Findeisen; Fayal Abderemane-Ali; Cristina Arrigoni;
Stephanie Wong; Shailika Reddy Nurva; Gildas Loussouarn; Daniel L. Minor

- 2014-01-01 (print)

*Journal of Molecular Biology (J. Mol. Biol.)*. 426, 2, 467-483.

**Description:**
Closed Pore and CTD in pore-only NavAe. Correlates CTD neck unfolding with
activation.



### Role of the C-terminal domain in the structure and function of tetrameric sodium channels
`2013-open-pore-navms`

Claire Bagnéris; Paul G. DeCaen; Benjamin A. Hall; Claire E. Naylor; David E.
Clapham; Christopher W. M. Kay; B. A. Wallace

- 2013-09-19 (online)

*Nature Communications (Nat. Commun.)*. 4, 

**Description:**
Pore only open conformation. Supposed to have the CTD but rcsb pdb doesn't
show it. Proposes CTD role in gating.



### Structure of a bacterial voltage-gated sodium channel pore reveals mechanisms of opening and closing
`2012-partially-open-pore-navms`

Emily C. McCusker; Claire Bagnéris; Claire E. Naylor; Ambrose R. Cole;
Nazzareno D'Avanzo; Colin G. Nichols; B.A. Wallace

- 2012-10-02 (online)

*Nature Communications (Nat. Commun.)*. 3, 1102.

**Description:**
Pore only partially open state. This may or may not collapse to the closed
state in molecular dynamics.



### Crystal structure of an orthologue of the NaChBac voltage-gated sodium channel
`2012-closed-navrh`

Xu Zhang; Wenlin Ren; Paul DeCaen; Chuangye Yan; Xiao Tao; Lin Tang; Jingjing
Wang; Kazuya Hasegawa; Takashi Kumasaka; Jianhua He; Jiawei Wang; David E.
Clapham; Nieng Yan

- 2012-05-20 (online)

*Nature (Nature)*. 

**Description:**
Pore and Voltage Sensing domains in a closed state.



### Crystal structure of a voltage-gated sodium channel in two potentially inactivated states
`2012-closed-asym-navab`

Jian Payandeh; Tamer M. Gamal El-Din; Todd Scheuer; Ning Zheng; William A.
Catterall

- 2012-05-20 (online)

*Nature (Nature)*. 

**Description:**
Pore and Voltage Sensing domains in an asymmetric closed state. NavAb.



### Structural basis for gating charge movement in the voltage sensor of a sodium channel
`2012-vsd-mechanism`

V. Yarov-Yarovoy; P. G. DeCaen; R. E. Westenbroek; C.-Y. Pan; T. Scheuer; D.
Baker; W. A. Catterall

- 2011-12-12 (online)
- 2012-01-10 (print)

*Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.)*. 109, 2, E93-E102.

**Description:**
Homology modelling to resting, intermediate and activated states of voltage
sensing domains. Disulfide locking experiments. Cites
[doi:10.1073/pnas.0806486105] and [doi:10.1073/pnas.0912307106] and
[doi:10.1073/pnas.1116449108]



### The crystal structure of a voltage-gated sodium channel
`2011-closed-navab`

Jian Payandeh; Todd Scheuer; Ning Zheng; William A. Catterall

- 2011-07-10 (online)

*Nature (Nature)*. 475, 7356, 353-358.

**Description:**
Pore and Voltage Sensing domains in a closed state. First NaV Structure.
Prokaryote NavAb





-------------------------------------------------
