

Bibliographic Entries
=====================

*Note: This file is autogenerated. Don't edit it directly*

### Fast determination of the optimal rotational matrix for macromolecular superpositions
`2009-theobald-rmsd`

Pu Liu; Dimitris K. Agrafiotis; Douglas L. Theobald

- 2009-01-01 (print)

*Journal of Computational Chemistry (J. Comput. Chem.)*. n/a-n/a.

**Description:**
This one computes the optimal rotation in addition to (specifically: after)
just computing the minimal RMSD value. It uses [2005-theobald-rmsd=14] for
finding the optimal RMSD (ie leading eigenvalue of key matrix).

### Rapid calculation of RMSDs using a quaternion-based characteristic polynomial
`2005-theobald-rmsd`

Douglas L. Theobald

- 2005-06-23 (online)
- 2005-07-01 (print)

*Acta Crystallographica Section A Foundations of Crystallography (Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A: Found. Crystallogr.)*. 61, 4, 478-480.

**Description:**
Instead of doing matrix diagonalization or inversion, use netwon-raphson
root-finding on a characteristic polynomial.

Mainly builds off of [1987-horn-rmsd=5].



### Using quaternions to calculate RMSD
`2004-dill-rmsd`

Evangelos A. Coutsias; Chaok Seok; Ken A. Dill

- 2004-01-01 (online)
- 2004-11-30 (print)

*Journal of Computational Chemistry (J. Comput. Chem.)*. 25, 15, 1849-1857.

**Description:**
Similar to [2005-theobald-rmsd], builds off of [1987-horn-rmsd=5]. Proves
identity with normal 3x3 methods.

Derives the derivative of RMSD wrt coordinates, although "it is well known"



### On the orthogonal transformation used for structural comparisons
`1989-kearsley-rmsd`

S. K. Kearsley

- 1989-02-01 (print)

*Acta Crystallographica Section A Foundations of Crystallography (Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A: Found. Crystallogr.)*. 45, 2, 208-210.

**Description:**
[2005-theobald-rmsd] cites for quaternion RMSD

### A note on the rotational superposition problem
`1988-diamond-rmsd`

R. Diamond

- 1988-03-01 (print)

*Acta Crystallographica Section A Foundations of Crystallography (Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A: Found. Crystallogr.)*. 44, 2, 211-216.

**Description:**
[2005-theobald-rmsd] cites for quaternion RMSD



### Closed-form solution of absolute orientation using unit quaternions
`1987-horn-rmsd`

Berthold K. P. Horn

- 1987-04-01 (online)
- 1987-04-01 (print)

*Journal of the Optical Society of America A (J. Opt. Soc. Amer. A)*. 4, 4, 629.

**Description:**
[2005-theobald-rmsd] cites for quaternion RMSD



### A solution for the best rotation to relate two sets of vectors
`1978-kabsch-rmsd`

W. Kabsch

- 1976-09-01 (print)

*Acta Crystallographica Section A (Acta Crystallogr. A)*. 32, 5, 922-923.

**Description:**
[2005-theobald-rmsd] says this suffers from rotoinversions because it uses
3x3 rotations instead of 4x4 quaternions.



### A Fast 3 x N Matrix Multiply Routine for Calculation of Protein RMSD
`2014-haque-fast-rmsd`

Imran S Haque; Kyle A Beauchamp; Vijay S Pande


*bioRxiv (bioRxiv)*. 




-------------------------------------------------
