

Bibliographic Entries
=====================

*Note: This file is autogenerated. Don't edit it directly*

### Markov State Models and tICA Reveal a Nonnative Folding Nucleus in Simulations of NuG2
`2016-schwantes-nug2`

Christian R. Schwantes; Diwakar Shukla; Vijay S. Pande

- 2016-04-01 (print)

*Biophysical Journal (Biophys. J.)*. 110, 8, 1716-1719.

**Description:**
They find an intermediate in [2011-larsen-folding] NuG2 trajectories that
is a register shift that was missed before tICA+MSM.



### Fs MD Trajectories
`2014-fs-peptide`

Robert McGibbon

- 2014-05-01 (online)




### How Fast-Folding Proteins Fold
`2011-larsen-folding`

K. Lindorff-Larsen; S. Piana; R. O. Dror; D. E. Shaw

- 2011-10-27 (online)
- 2011-10-28 (print)

*Science (Science)*. 334, 6055, 517-520.

**Description:**
The authors simulated folding trajectories for 12 small proteins. The
simulations were between 100 us and 1 ms. This paper was a considerable
advance for the field, and more or less closed the book on molecular
dynamics for folding.



### Atomic-Level Characterization of the Structural Dynamics of Proteins
`2010-shaw-fip35-bpti`

D. E. Shaw; P. Maragakis; K. Lindorff-Larsen; S. Piana; R. O. Dror; M. P.
Eastwood; J. A. Bank; J. M. Jumper; J. K. Salmon; Y. Shan; W. Wriggers

- 2010-10-14 (online)
- 2010-10-15 (print)

*Science (Science)*. 330, 6002, 341-346.

**Description:**
Simulation of fip35 ww domain: 2x 100 us. Note this was at 400K so
unfolding could be observed.

Simulation of bpti: 1ms. Note this was done with tip4p for reasons.



### Transition Networks for the Comprehensive Characterization of Complex Conformational Change in Proteins
`2006-noe-conf-change`

Frank Noé; Dieter Krachtus; Jeremy C. Smith; Stefan Fischer

- 2006-05-01 (print)

*Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation (J. Chem. Theory Comput.)*. 2, 3, 840-857.


### Structural mechanism of the recovery stroke in the Myosin molecular motor
`2005-myosin-motor`

S. Fischer; B. Windshugel; D. Horak; K. C. Holmes; J. C. Smith

- 2005-04-29 (online)
- 2005-05-10 (print)

*Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.)*. 102, 19, 6873-6878.




-------------------------------------------------
